# General SSH Problem Creation Walkthrough

## Pre-requisites

1. You have `cmgr` installed and configured.
    - Refer to the [setup page](/setup-cmgr.md) if this is not the case for you.

2. You have done the [Reversing Python Problem Creation
   Walkthrough](/example-problems/reversing-python/). The Reversing Python
   walkthrough is a more basic example of using a single container for cmgr
   problem development. The file changes presented here will be as compared to
   Reversing Python.

## Overview

This problem uses a container as a ssh server and has 3 files scattered around
the filesystem that together compose the flag.

The new thing about this challenge is that it uses multiple build stages in the
Dockerfile to make use of multiple containers instead of just one.

In General SSH, we spin up an Ubuntu container called "builder" and use it to
make the flag and store it in separate files and in `/challenge/metadata.json`.
We spin up another container which we call "ssh_host". This is the container
that becomes the main focal point of the challenge. We copy the separate parts
of the flag to ssh_host and configure it to accept ssh connections.

It's a good practice to separate the work associated with building the
challenge from the actual challenge itself. That's why we make a "builder"
container and "ssh_host" container. If we made the "builder" container accept
ssh connections competitors might stumble across `metadata.json`! This can be
mitigated with good permissions on the folder, but we consider best practice to
be separate containers, not just secure permissions.

## Walkthrough

### File Listing

1. instructions-to-Xof3.txt's contain verbal instructions on how to find the
   next part of the flag. The Dockerfile copies these into the "ssh_host"
   container.

1. [profile](/example-problems/general-ssh/profile) is a bash profile that
   places the newly logged in user into a different folder than their home
   directory. This is done so that returning home from the root directory
   yields the last part of the flag instead of the first.

1. [start.sh](/example-problems/general-ssh/start.sh) starts a listener that
   receives ssh connections. This script is ran as the last step in the
   Dockerfile.

1. [Dockerfile](/example-problems/general-ssh/Dockerfile), the first line is
   different for this file. It's the "LAUNCH" directive which tells cmgr which
   containers should be actively running for the challenge. For our challenge,
   we don't need "builder" running, but we do need "ssh_host" running. The next
   line of code is the "FROM" statement. We've appended "AS builder_base" to the
   end of this line to indicate that the following instructions are for the
   builder container. "builder" is actually a special name to cmgr, it's the
   container that it always expects to find `/challenge/metadata.json` and
   `/challenge/artifacts.tar.gz` if applicable. The rest of "builder" is similar
   to Reversing Python. "ssh_host" isn't too different either, but notice the
   COPY instructions that grab files from "builder", such as line 36. This is a
   critical ability to connect your containers and your other containers are
   likely to need to know things from the "builder" container. We copy all of
   the flag parts in the Dockerfile since it can access them easily with `COPY
   --from=builder ...`.

1. [config-builder.py](/example-problems/general-ssh/config-builder.py), this
   script generates the password from the seed and puts it in the file for the
   "ssh_host" to use. Then it generates the flag and splits it into 3 parts and
   writes a file for each, also for the "ssh_host" container. Finally, it writes
   the whole flag into `/challenge/metadata.json`, as needed by cmgr. It also
   puts the "password" into this file, so that the problem description can give
   the password to the competitor.

1. [config-sshhost.py](/example-problems/general-ssh/config-sshhost.py), this
   script creates the "ctf-player" user and the needed directories and also
   changes the password of the account to be that which was generated by the
   "builder" container.

## Conclusion

With this walkthrough, we created an advanced problem that used a Dockerfile to
create multiple containers to separate building the challenge from actually
playing it. The result is an ssh host container that has no challenge metadata
present on it and *never* had any on it.

[Return to the index](/example-problems#example-problems)
